ScienceDirect
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
Procedia Computer Science 179 (2021) 962–965
1877-0509 © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the 5th International Conference on Computer Science and 
Computational Intelligence 2020
10.1016/j.procs.2021.01.101
© 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0)
Peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the 5th International Conference on Computer Science and 
Computational Intelligence 2020
Keywords: Type your keywords here, separated by semicolons ; cyber security; mobile security; penetration testing
1. Introduction
Mobile internet traﬃc is a huge and unavoidable thing, almost all transactions made could be carried out through
the mobile network (social network services, e-commerce, banking etc.) almost every aspects in our daily life could be
easily done by just using mobile phone1. Prediction has been made since 2017 through 2022 mobile internet traﬃc will
be exponentially increasing by seven fold and will dominate the internet traﬃc in the world2. Therefore, application
developers will be urge to port every possible application to mobile application. Some industries had already did
improve their mobile application to compete in this digital era, especially industry such as banking, e-commerce,
games, etc3. Consumers nowadays desire a privilege to access application wherever and whenever they want to, they
∗Corresponding author. Tel.: +62-813-1555-6813
E-mail address: ymuliono@binus.edu
5th International Conference on Computer Science and Computational Intelligence 2020
Peeking and Testing Broken Object Level Authorization
Vulnerability onto E-Commerce and E-Banking Mobile Applications
Anthony Viriyaa, Yohan Mulionob,∗
aConsultant Penetration Tester, Penetration Testing Department, The ITSEC Group, Jakarta, Indonesia 12950
bCyber Security Program, Computer Science Department, Bina Nusantara University, Jakarta, Indonesia 11480
Abstract
Internet traﬃc is already a daily usage and unavoidable for many people, moreover, people needs it anywhere and anytime, so
that more companies tend to fulﬁll that desire onto bringing some of the application to mobile devices. This research aim to
ﬁnd out whether the mobile application security has been the prioritize for the company or not. Several mobile applications has
been tested ethically and legal in two impactful industries in Indonesia, E-Commerce and Banking. Several ﬁndings has been
found in the mobile application just tested by using Broken Object Level Authorization which is the ﬁrst point of top ten OWASP
vulnerabilities. All attacks conducted are not complicated to reproduce, malicious user only need to know the basic of request
interception in mobile phone or web application, the attack could be done by using any free proxy software. High dependency only
on Jailbreak Detection, Root Detection and SSL Pinning as the main security protocol is not a wise decision to be taken.
	
Anthony Viriya  et al. / Procedia Computer Science 179 (2021) 962–965
963
can shop virtually anywhere and anytime, playing online games when they have to wait for something or wire some
money in 2 A.M. is naturally ordinary activity for some people.
Despite of the functionality of the mobile application developed these days, did security become one of the main
issues? Recently a research conducted to determine whether security is matter for some companies, the result shows
that security still not a big deal for some companies. They tend to deliver applications in a short time with full concern
only on the functionalities, with not paying much attention for the security itself4.
based on research conducted by kellner et al.5, they state that an iOS application with no jailbreak detection could
be tampered and utilized in malicious way to harm other users. Several ﬁndings that will be explained in later sections
found that mobile applications tend to depends on jailbreak detection, root detection and SSL pinning. Once the
jailbreak detection, root detection and SSL pinning could be bypassed, the application never being tested nor patched
according to proper security testing guide such as OWASP. In fact, more than hundreds of methods can be used to
perform attacks in mobile application, this research aims to prove whether using one of the most well-known methods
(Broken Object Level Authorization) and ﬁnd out whether the company is aware of this method and protected its
mobile applications against this method.
1.1. Jailbreak Detection, Root Detection and SSL Pinnning
Jailbreak detection is a mechanism that could detect whether the user of the application in iOS phone is in root
privilege or not and root detection is the same detect mechanism and work in Android phone. SSL pinning is a security
mechanism that could be used in client side to avoid interception using third party application by validating the
server certiﬁcates after SSL handshake protocol. These mechanism are often used by developers as their only security
mechanism, due to the great reliance on these methods. The developers never performs penetration testing of the
application directly, Therefore, when these defense mechanism(Jailbreak Detection, Root Detection, SSL Pinnning)
failed, the application behind these mechanisms is not ready to receive attacks since no penetration testing has been
performed before.
2. OWASP
The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is an open community which dedicated to improve security
measurement in many aspects like web and mobile application6, OWASP is a community based guideline globally
used by many penetration tester7 8 9 to test whether their application is already appropriate according to the standard
measurement of OWASP. OWASP foundation released many publications in security testing guidelines for example:
Web Security Testing Guide, Mobile Security Testing Guide and API Security Testing Guide where could be down-
loaded free and could become a standard security testing in applications. For each of them, OWASP has rank all the
vulnerabilities into top ten every year and every two year for website.
3. Broken Object Level Authorization
According to OWASP API Security Top ten 201910, the number one in rank is Broken Object Level Authoriza-
tion where system could not give a proper authorization for the data requested by inappropriate user. API endpoint
supposed to check every function which contains object level authorization that accesses a data source using an input
from the user. This research will perform this attack to test against several mobile applications in Indonesia, because
this attack has been assessed as the most proven attack in 2019.
3.1. Attack Scenario
A server that hosting an e-commerce service for everyday goods provides a buy and sell features for sellers and
consumers. when consumers want to buy an item, the customers should choose the product, enter the product into the
cart then ﬁnish the payment. after that, the seller will receive an purchase order but not the money yet, prepare the
goods from the purchase order and proceed to the delivery done by third party. then after the delivery completed, the
customer should check every item they received if the customer have any complaint, they have rights to not complete
964	
Anthony Viriya  et al. / Procedia Computer Science 179 (2021) 962–965
the transactions and raise the issue, so the money will not wired yet to the sellers, but if the customer do not have
any issue, the customer should click the transaction complete button, the transaction between the seller and customer
ﬁnished and the money will be wired to the seller. The attack scenario here is, how if the seller sent a piece of stone to
every order received by the seller, and the seller pretend to be customer and hit the API that supposed to be accessed
only by speciﬁc customer, because of the Broken Authorization, money will be wired even though the customer do
not press the transaction complete.
4. Attack Method and Results
According to the attack scenario, an attack would be conducted against several mobile application, the test would
be conducted ethically against each of the company’s applications tested. Attack will be conducted in three sectors
of applications which involving money in the daily transaction including e-commerce and e-banking. Broken Object
Level Authorization will be conducted in the applications in every function possible.
4.1. Broken Object Level Authorization against E-Commerce Application
This Attack conducted in an ethical manner where this company have a policy for bug bounty, means a bug that
could be found in the application and reported without being exploited will be rewarded by the company. Vulnerability
found in one of the biggest E-commerce company in Indonesia, the vulnerability found make malicious user can
bypass authorization occured in a transaction, where the sellers could ﬁnish the transaction without the customers
consent, the transaction completion policy in the E-commerce is whether the user click the transaction complete
button, or after ﬁve days after the items being delivered to the user but the user do not click the transaction complete
button nor complaint about the items, the system will complete the transaction automatically. The API request without
proper authorization found at https://{E-CommerceName}/reputationapp/review/api/v2/edit/validate through that link,
the user could edit the user ID and ﬁnish the transaction without user consent. Report for this attack has been reported
and remediated by the company.
4.2. Broken Object Level Authorization leads to Account Takeover in E-Commerce Application
This Attack conducted in a same ethical manner with the ﬁrst attack where the company have a legal bug bounty
program. The Tokopedia iOS application’s OTP can be bypassed using several vulnerability chaining such from weak
SSL Pinning that can by bypassed using a free cydia tweak (could be downloaded freely) and No Jailbreak Detection.
Vulnerability could be produced by copying a legitimate response after submitting correct OTP. After that we can
send any request that needs OTP for veriﬁcation, such as forgot password and send the OTP through the mobile
phone, next we will intercept the request, and changing the response using a valid response we copy beforehand,
ﬁnally the request completed successfully even though we did not input a correct OTP. Report for this attack has been
reported and remediated by the company.
4.3. Broken Object Level Authorization against E-Banking Application
This testing occured whereas one of the researcher works in a cyber security consultant company, this application
is one of the penetration testing project which conducted in ethical manner with a legal consent between the client
and penetration tester, thus the name and URL would be blurred. One of the E-Banking could be exploited through
arbitrary source account to buy a cellphone credit through API URL: https://{bank-name}/v2/purchase/{API-name}
when this URL is accessed through third party interceptor such as burp, the application would requesting several
parameters:
• origin account number = sender account number
• provider = telephone provider
• destination phone = user mobile phone number which should be receiving the phone credit
• transaction token = token generated by API
	
Anthony Viriya  et al. / Procedia Computer Science 179 (2021) 962–965
965
by editing the origin account number parameter, malicious user could use any valid account number and buy the
cellphone credit using another user account number without the user consent. Report for this attack has been reported
and being remediated by the company.
5. Attack Summary
Three attacks that has been conducted are not that complicated to reproduce, the attacker just have to know the basic
of intercepting request in mobile phone or web application, the attack could be done by using free proxy software such
as Burp Suite and Fiddler. The idea of having a Jailbreak Detection, Root Detection and SSL Pinning for the only
security solution is not a wise idea to implement. Jailbreak detection of banking apps could easily be evaded, almost
every banking application jailbreak detection mechanism could be evaded even though the application located in the
top applications used5. But, to use Jailbreak Detection, Root Detection and SSL Pinning as an additional layer of
mobile security is a must thing to do.
6. Conclusion and Future Work
The Conclusion is, Well-known mobile application can be abused even using only one method, whereas in fact,
there are more than hundreds of methods can be performed. Furthermore, what happens if the company relies only
on Jailbreak Detection, Root Detection and SSL Pinnning mechanism? if the mechanism failed, afterwards, the ap-
plication can easily be abused. Even though the application is made by a well-known company, it does not rule out
that security holes still exist in the application. All the attacks conducted in many E-commerce and banking, not all
of them vulnerable against Broken Object Level Authorization. In surprise, some of the applications could be easily
exploited without much eﬀort. Moreover, one of the application already has the feature for more than two years after
tracing back the details of update in AppStore, it means, the bug already sitting there for two years. For the future
work, this research will lead to combine this work with the research conducted by Kellner et al5. Future research
will be conducted by trying to evade the jailbreak or root detection and SSL Pinning for top e-banking, e-commerce
and another applications which are famous in Indonesia and has money transaction inside the applications. Next, the
research will conduct other Top Ten Security indexed by OWASP from Mobile or API to reach a conclusion whether
mobile applications in Indonesia too dependent in root detetion, jailbreak detection and SSL Pinning without paying
attention to apply secure code in the application or jailbreak detection, root detection and SSL pinning are additional
layer of security.
References
1. Yesilyurt, M., Yalman, Y.. Security threats on mobile devices and their eﬀects: estimations for the future. International Journal of Security
and Its Applications 2016;10(2):13–26.
2. Forecast, G.M.D.T.. Cisco visual networking index: global mobile data traﬃc forecast update, 2017–2022. Update 2019;2017:2022.
3. Reaves, B., Bowers, J., Scaife, N., Bates, A., Bhartiya, A., Traynor, P., et al. Mo (bile) money, mo (bile) problems: Analysis of branchless
banking applications. ACM Transactions on Privacy and Security (TOPS) 2017;20(3):1–31.
4. Sφhoel, H., Jaatun, M.G., Boyd, C.. Owasp top 10-do startups care? In: 2018 International Conference on Cyber Security and Protection of
Digital Services (Cyber Security). IEEE; 2018, p. 1–8.
5. Kellner, A., Horlboge, M., Rieck, K., Wressnegger, C.. False sense of security: A study on the eﬀectivity of jailbreak detection in banking
apps. In: 2019 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P). IEEE; 2019, p. 1–14.
6. OWASP, . OWASP Foundation; 2020 (accessed August 12, 2020). URL https://owasp.org/.
7. Holik, F., Horalek, J., Marik, O., Neradova, S., Zitta, S.. Eﬀective penetration testing with metasploit framework and methodologies. In:
2014 IEEE 15th International Symposium on Computational Intelligence and Informatics (CINTI). IEEE; 2014, p. 237–242.
8. Pratama, I.P.A.E., Wiradarma, A.A.B.A.. Open source intelligence testing using the owasp version 4 framework at the information gathering
stage (case study: X company). International Journal of Computer Network and Information Security 2019;11(7):8.
9. Li, J.. Vulnerabilities mapping based on owasp-sans: A survey for static application security testing (sast) 2020;.
10. OWASP,
.
OWASP
API
Security
Top
10
2019;
2019
(accessed
August
12,
2020).
URL
https://owasp.org/
www-project-api-security/.
